cinema.md, before:

# About

This file collects examples of talks, lectures and other forms of presentations that can be watched online. 

# Watched
* [Jessica Richman: Why should science be limited to scientists?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7lAlnEX4YQg)
  * see also [Only "Scientists" Can Do Science](http://edge.org/response-detail/25504)
* [Tal Danino on using bacteria to cure cancer](http://www.ted.com/talks/tal_danino_we_can_use_bacteria_to_detect_cancer_and_maybe_treat_it#t-243227)
  * uses probiotic bacteria that are genetically modified to produce signal that is detectable through urine color
  * similar approch for therapy, i.e. genetically modified to produce cancer-treating drugs
  * in both scenarios, signal is enhanced through quorum sensing
* [Thomas Goetz: It's time to redesign medical data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bCGlWQnzDVE)
   * about how to link patient data to patient's course of action, with thoughts on redesigning the forms that are used to convey the result of clinical diagnostics to patients
* [Isaac Kohane : How can every clinical visit be used to advance medical science?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P5O66e8r2QM)
   * starts with a nice analogy to hurrikane information, where available satellite and other data is integrated in almost real time into predictive models that clearly lay out the options people will be facing as a result. Why don't we integrate patient data with people's lifes in the same way?
* [Peter Chiarelli: Accelerating open science and the urgency to act now](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xz4xa0m1u5o)
  * highlights traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder as major injuries incurred by US soldiers in Iraq
  * discusses research silos
  * demands open science principles to be followed for medical research
* [Computer Networks: The Heralds of Resource Sharing](https://archive.org/details/ComputerNetworks_TheHeraldsOfResourceSharing)
  * [on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_Networks:_The_Heralds_of_Resource_Sharing)
* [How many trees in the world?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jqdOkXQngw8)
  * provides an estimated number and some background on how it was arrived at, nicely visualized
* [Dan Whaley | The Revolution Will Be Annotated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2jTctBbX_kw)
  * introduces the Web annotation tool [Hypothes.is](https://hypothes.is/) as an element of human cultural evolution
* All of TEDMED 2015
  * [sessions](http://tedmed.com/event/stage2015) ([schedule](http://www.tedmed.com/files/Downloads/TEDMED_2015_Schedule.pdf))
  * notes on paper, since I watched in full screen mode
* [GE material tests](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ozNZHJntyWU)
  * exposes a range of material samples to tests (abrasion, crushing, punching)
  * do similar series on biomedical techniques/ materials?
* [How messy problems can inspire creativity](http://www.ted.com/talks/tim_harford_how_messy_problems_can_inspire_creativity)
  * some good examples, e.g. Keith Jarrett's [The Köln Concert](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_K%C3%B6ln_Concert)
* [Ramesh Raskar on Camera Culture and mental framework for innovation](http://www.tedxbeaconstreet.com/ramesh-raskar/)
  * I actually watched several of his talks &mdash; this one is just a good overview
* [Manu Prakash on Foldscope](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h8cF5QPPmWU)
  * nice [collection of images taken with Foldscope](https://microcosmos.foldscope.com/) 
* [Thomas Suarez: A 12-year-old app developer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fkd9TWUtFm0)
  * title says it all
* [Bitcoin Blockchain Ethereum - Vitalik Buterin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGYmNidVLWY)
  * Visually appealing but still useful summary of blockchains
* [A Better Default Colormap for Matplotlib](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xAoljeRJ3lU)
  * [viridis](https://bids.github.io/colormap/)
* [Jer Thorp - The Weight of Data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q9wcvFkWpsM)
  * putting data into a human context
* [David Gruber: unexpected discovery of biofluorescent fish](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96HHmILhyrE#t=4m4s)
* [Sue Desmond-Hellmann: A smarter, more precise way to think about public health](https://www.ted.com/talks/sue_desmond_hellmann_a_smarter_more_precise_way_to_think_about_public_health)
  * makes the case for bringing precision medicine approaches to public health
* [Digital biology and open science -- the coming revolution | Stephen Larson](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EKopW86CCJo)
 * putting OpenWorm into the context of engineering, digital biology and open science
* [Truly sustainable economic development: Ernesto Sirolli at TEDxEQChCh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SpIxZiBpGU0)
  * harnessing the power of local communities for economic development
    * [Dambisa Moyo's book "Dead Aid"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dambisa_Moyo#Dead_Aid)
    * [Sirolli Institute](http://sirolli.com/) 
      * [Forbes summary](http://www.forbes.com/2009/04/07/summary-dead-aid-opinions-business-visionaries-moyo.html)
    * book: [Ripples from the Zambezi: Passion, Entrepreneurship, and the Rebirth of Local Economies](https://books.google.de/books/about/Ripples_from_the_Zambezi.html?id=nkobSaZcwDMC&redir_esc=y)
    * [horse manure crisis of New York in 1960, as discussed in 1860](https://fee.org/articles/the-great-horse-manure-crisis-of-1894/)
* [Flashmob Nürnberg 2014 - Ode an die Freude](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a23945btJYw)
  * a very special, deeply emotional kind of public engagement
* [Is stigma an invisible killer? &mdash; Nahid Bhadelia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DR8GOoE91Lk)
  * discusses the stigma that patients and caregivers often experience, and what can be done about it
    * key factor: education
* [Philippe Petit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philippe_Petit): [The journey across the high wire](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k3zZVQPaKKQ)
  * quite personal perspective on essential personality traits, presented in a highly original way
* [The surprising habits of original thinkers &mdash; Adam Grant ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fxbCHn6gE3U)
* [The Open Patient: Healing through sharing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Glo5zP3sMpM)
  * features [OpenNotes](http://www.opennotes.org/)
  * [blog post](http://singularityhub.com/2016/08/12/access-to-medical-data-helped-this-engineer-discover-his-own-brain-tumor/)
  * [summary tweet](https://twitter.com/EvoMRI/status/772090639131545601)
* [Audrey Tang: Stories from the Future of Democracy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mxMxg4ct-D8) 
  * open data as a key principle in the government of Taiwan
* [Back to the thesis: Francis Collins](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e3QAWyGW1DY) 
  * useful
  * great illustrations
* [Wanda Diaz Merced: How a blind astronomer found a way to hear the stars](https://www.ted.com/talks/wanda_diaz_merced_how_a_blind_astronomer_found_a_way_to_hear_the_stars)
  * sonification as a way to (a) explore data, (b) help bridge gaps between the sighted and un-sighted
* [Big Data: Biomedicine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F6CI7jXHGWg)
  * soundbites and visualizations around BD2K; not openly licensed
* [How to Learn Anything... Fast - Josh Kaufman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EtJy69cEOtQ)
  - Five main steps
    - Define a target performance level: Be clear about what you want to learn; define what it looks like if you succeed in learning it
    - Deconstruct the skill: decompose it into subskills, in order to practice the most important individual subskills first
    - Do some research to identify what those most important subskills are by skimming relevant literature, course materials and such; try to find out enough to allow you to self-correct as you practice
    - Remove barriers to practice: make it easy to actually sit down and practice, undistracted
    - Pre-commit a useful amount of time (he said at least 20h) of focused deliberate practice
* [Jay Gattuso: From nothing to daily use - How Python changed my work life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fCSAOcTbe8g)
* [Data Management Hub](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MYFyr2NmWdg) &mdash; introductory talk by [Ingo Keck](https://kubrik.io/about/team/ingo.html) on the [Data Management Hub](https://damahub.com/), a kind of blockchain-based distributed Dropbox for researchers
* [Matthew DeGennaro: Mutant mosquitoes hold key to life-saving perfume](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HbMhbrn1PoA)
* [Ogie Shaw: Winning The Mental Battle of Physical Fitness and Obesity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K60xHx836T0)
  - gist: exercise daily, first thing in the morning, for 20 min or less, against resistance; reward it
* [NEJM Data Summit](http://events.nejm.org/agenda.php)
  - [video recordings](http://events.nejm.org/conference_agenda.php?cid=7000)
  - see also [entry in events](https://github.com/Daniel-Mietchen/events/issues/42)
* Much of [TEDMED 2016](http://www.tedmed.com/event/stage2016)
  - see also [entry in events](https://github.com/Daniel-Mietchen/events/issues/51)
* Jeff Rosen &mdash; [Germany: Low Crime, Clean Prisons, Lessons for America](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wtV5ev6813I)
  - starts with some stats about incarceration rates in the US and other Western countries
  - on final slide, he quotes "The degree of civilization in a society can be judged by entering its prisons" from Dostoyevsky and asks what American prisons can tell about American society, which brings him on a trip to Germany to visit prisons (including a former concentration camp), talk to law enforcement officers and convicted criminals, which forms the main part of the talk.
* [From Syria to Germany in three stories | Kareem Kousa, Yusuf Zein & Ibrahim Andrun](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ylk7CjEHVaY)
  - three personal stories of young men who fled from Latakia to Hamburg
* [What does the Quran really say about a Muslim woman's hijab? | Samina Ali](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_J5bDhMP9lQ)
  - says that the Quran does not require women to wear a veil but instead recommends them to "do as the Romans do"; the requirements for veils have originated from clerical commentaries later on
  - points out that those clerical commentaries but not the Quran itself seem to see it preferable for women to stay at home, uneducated and always at the service of their husbands
* [Manage data like source code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tLdiDqtnnho)
  - introduces [Quilt](https://quiltdata.com/), a data package manager that allows to install, compile and version data and to access it like Python objects
* [Veritasium: Is Most Published Research Wrong?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=42QuXLucH3Q)
* [Tetiana Ivanova - How to become a Data Scientist in 6 months: a hacker’s approach to career planning](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rIofV14c0tc)
  - tried to distill the key elements of learning and learning-friendly behaviour and environments and put them into practice by learning data science from scratch, consciously avoiding institutional settings but making active use of Google, Stack Exchange, Kaggle, hackathons, other meetups etc.
  - similar approach in [I Dropped Out of School to Create My Own Data Science Master’s — Here’s My Curriculum](https://medium.com/@davidventuri/i-dropped-out-of-school-to-create-my-own-data-science-master-s-here-s-my-curriculum-1b400dcee412)
  - similar in spirit to [What I do or: science to data science](http://p.migdal.pl/2015/12/14/sci-to-data-sci.html)
 * [AI & The Future of Work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dRw4d2Si8LA)
   - explores how repetitive work is being replaced by automation
   - TL;DR: 
     - Education needed for things that can not soon be automated
       - Make things with love and dedication
       - Feeling empathy
       - Creativity
       - Critical thinking
     - Those four things are often missing in curricula
* [Aled Edwards: Why biomedical philanthropy supports redundant science](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wtp7R97jz5k)
  - makes a clear case for open science as a driver of innovation
* [Why the majority is always wrong](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNGFep6rncY)
  - argues that innovation usually comes from doing things differently rather than from merely doing things the same way at different intensities, which most people tend to do in response to challenges
* [Every second counts](http://everysecondcounts.eu/)
  - "America first", but can we just agree on making [country X] second?
* [The scientific method is crap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j12BBcKSgEQ#t=12m50s)
  - "instead, embrace the cycle of scientific thinking &mdash; observe, explain, predict"
* [Our approach to innovation is dead wrong](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pii8tTx1UYM)
  - on the importance of early feedback from the real world when trying something new
* [Disruptive ideas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MU13axMioY)
  - rather than inviting the poor to come into town for seminars, give them tablets and allow them to learn at home
* [Why I live a zero waste life | Lauren Singer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pF72px2R3Hg)
  - got rid of buying packaged stuff
    - starting with food
  - produces the products that she needs (e.g. tooth paste; lotion) herself
  - brings her own jars etc. to the point of sell
  - if she buys something non-consumable (e.g. clothes), it's second hand

# Maybe watch in the future

* [The World We Want: OpenStreetMap and the Sustainable Development Goals](http://2016.stateofthemap.org/2016/the-world-we-want-openstreetmap-and-the-sustainable-development-goals/)
* [Democratisation of Knowledge with Katherine Maher](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8BuyKmjy7Rw)
* [Preventing the Next Global Pandemic: Lessons from Ebola and Zika](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x03QvDVrXZQ)
* [TED talk on fight against Ebola](https://twitter.com/HansRosling/status/685758709780328448)
* [Ending infectious diseases | Susan Desmond-Hellman, CEO Gates Foundation | Code Conference 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OJGd2E7Tjn8)
* older [TED MED](https://www.youtube.com/user/tedmed) talks 
* [Sandra Collins: Memory Keepers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i4mbHb5wqKo)
* [Frank Miedema: Science in Transition](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sUf1ajkIAhY)
* [Aled Edwards: Why biomedical philanthropy supports redundant science](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wtp7R97jz5k)
* [Pardis Sabeti: How we'll fight the next deadly virus](https://www.ted.com/talks/pardis_sabeti_how_we_ll_fight_the_next_deadly_virus)
* [Big Data: Personalized Learning](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r099JYtanSY)
* [Beyond Code: Repository Mining with Clojure](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hWhBmJJZoNM)
* [Michaela Murphy | On Resilience](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phhT1rGc96c)
* [CMake talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TqjtN8NGtl4)
* [Rafael Yuste: What understanding the brain means to science and medicine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n7cAuG-G_3k)
* [8 TED talks on the origin of ideas](http://www.educatorstechnology.com/2014/07/8-good-ted-talks-on-origin-of-ideas.html)
* [Create Flappy Bird in Python](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h2Uhla6nLDU)
* [Ideas from Europe](http://ideasfromeurope.eu/speakers-ideas-from-europe/)
* [Eli Pariser: Beware online "filter bubbles"](http://www.ted.com/talks/eli_pariser_beware_online_filter_bubbles)
* [Guido van Rossum - Keynote: Python now and in the future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bp3mCgrdMxU)
* [Diary of a Citizen Scientist with Sharman Apt Russell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jdWVpyRtUGg)
* [Marvin Minsky: Health and the human mind](https://www.ted.com/talks/marvin_minsky_on_health_and_the_human_mind?language=en)
* [David McCandless: The beauty of data visualization](http://www.ted.com/talks/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization)
* [Healing With Poetry - Nelofer Khan Habibullah](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rOR2xlQstGE)
* [Life in the Fast Lane - The Power of Large Scale Graphs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oxmurknhnto)
* [Videos from MLconf](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCjeM1xxYb_37bZfyparLS3Q) &mdash; all around machine learning
* [Sandy Pentland - Social Physics: How Good Ideas Spread](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HMBl0ttu-Ow)
* [Alex 'Sandy' Pentland - How social networks make us smarter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XAGBBt9RNbc)
* [Stuart Brown: Play is more than fun](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHwXlcHcTHc)
* [Michael J. Twery: "The Role of Sleep in Health"](https://videocast.nih.gov/Summary.asp?File=21123&bhcp=1)
* [Zika at University of California TV](http://www.uctv.tv/search/?keyword=zika&x=0&y=0)
* [Margaret Levenstein - Financing Innovation or Speculation, the Case of Cleveland](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8Ms7s-tPM4) &mdash; research on the impact of the 1930s Great Depression on innovative firms in the Midwest
* [Missing Evidence: Does physics still need experiment?](https://iai.tv/video/missing-evidence)
* [The Tyranny of Evidence](https://iai.tv/video/the-tyranny-of-evidence)
* [Mike Osterholm: "Deadliest Enemy: Our War Against Killer Germs”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vukHzn2juxw)
* [Building large-scale crowdsourcing communities with the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N0DsatEt0J8)
* [Fighting Disaster with Crowdsourcing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mp5EDWk3PHU)
* [The Humanitarian Data Exchange and HOT, CJ Hendrix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fdmNCyNCSxU)
* [Humanitarian OpenStreetMap: mapping the future of crisis response by Joseph Reeves](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2CIoO8oIDlM)
* [Ending Pandemics in Our Lifetime](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_9cX1Ilvf0)
* [An Afternoon with NASA Astronaut Kate Rubins (HHS Only)](https://videocast.nih.gov/summary.asp?Live=23253&bhcp=1)
* [What happens when our computers get smarter than we are?](https://www.ted.com/talks/nick_bostrom_what_happens_when_our_computers_get_smarter_than_we_are)
* [Paywall: The Business of Scholarship. A film about Open Access.](https://twitter.com/openscience/status/864711219663392768)
* [Kate Robinowitz: Open Data + You = Better Cities - Codeland - NYC 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xbwrKwO8NIE)
* [Economist Max Roser—Our World in Data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ia-3ud1TijA)
* [Climate model-data comparisons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tPSIvu0gQ90)
* [How to Become a Data Scientist in 2017? | Data Scientist Career | Data Science Future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ccCblUZFM0w)
* [Video of Navigate All the Knowledge (ConceptMap.io) presentation](http://learnjavafx.typepad.com/weblog/2016/03/video-of-navigate-all-the-knowledge-conceptmapio-presentation.html) &mdash; with Wikidata visualizations
* [Querying OSM + Wikidata from a single RDF database intro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KDiKzbuIhts)
* [The Hidden Secret of the Statues on Easter Island](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mH0sIjAHBVY)
* [Working Out Loud: The making of a movement | John Stepper](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XpjNl3Z10uc)
* [Why do whales sing? - Stephanie Sardelis](http://ed.ted.com/lessons/how-do-whales-sing-stephanie-sardelis)
* [Making robots more like children | Rodney Brooks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m2ViWnfbADE)
* [Sharon Terry: Science didn&#39;t understand my kids&#39; rare disease until I decided to study it](https://www.ted.com/talks/sharon_terry_science_didn_t_understand_my_kids_rare_disease_until_i_decided_to_study_it)
  - had watched that during TEDMED 2016 &mdash; notes at https://github.com/Daniel-Mietchen/events/issues/51

Commit message:

Two adults, two kids, zero waste | Bea Johnson

cinema.md, after:

# About

This file collects examples of talks, lectures and other forms of presentations that can be watched online. 

# Watched
* [Jessica Richman: Why should science be limited to scientists?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7lAlnEX4YQg)
  * see also [Only "Scientists" Can Do Science](http://edge.org/response-detail/25504)
* [Tal Danino on using bacteria to cure cancer](http://www.ted.com/talks/tal_danino_we_can_use_bacteria_to_detect_cancer_and_maybe_treat_it#t-243227)
  * uses probiotic bacteria that are genetically modified to produce signal that is detectable through urine color
  * similar approch for therapy, i.e. genetically modified to produce cancer-treating drugs
  * in both scenarios, signal is enhanced through quorum sensing
* [Thomas Goetz: It's time to redesign medical data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bCGlWQnzDVE)
   * about how to link patient data to patient's course of action, with thoughts on redesigning the forms that are used to convey the result of clinical diagnostics to patients
* [Isaac Kohane : How can every clinical visit be used to advance medical science?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P5O66e8r2QM)
   * starts with a nice analogy to hurrikane information, where available satellite and other data is integrated in almost real time into predictive models that clearly lay out the options people will be facing as a result. Why don't we integrate patient data with people's lifes in the same way?
* [Peter Chiarelli: Accelerating open science and the urgency to act now](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xz4xa0m1u5o)
  * highlights traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder as major injuries incurred by US soldiers in Iraq
  * discusses research silos
  * demands open science principles to be followed for medical research
* [Computer Networks: The Heralds of Resource Sharing](https://archive.org/details/ComputerNetworks_TheHeraldsOfResourceSharing)
  * [on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_Networks:_The_Heralds_of_Resource_Sharing)
* [How many trees in the world?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jqdOkXQngw8)
  * provides an estimated number and some background on how it was arrived at, nicely visualized
* [Dan Whaley | The Revolution Will Be Annotated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2jTctBbX_kw)
  * introduces the Web annotation tool [Hypothes.is](https://hypothes.is/) as an element of human cultural evolution
* All of TEDMED 2015
  * [sessions](http://tedmed.com/event/stage2015) ([schedule](http://www.tedmed.com/files/Downloads/TEDMED_2015_Schedule.pdf))
  * notes on paper, since I watched in full screen mode
* [GE material tests](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ozNZHJntyWU)
  * exposes a range of material samples to tests (abrasion, crushing, punching)
  * do similar series on biomedical techniques/ materials?
* [How messy problems can inspire creativity](http://www.ted.com/talks/tim_harford_how_messy_problems_can_inspire_creativity)
  * some good examples, e.g. Keith Jarrett's [The Köln Concert](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_K%C3%B6ln_Concert)
* [Ramesh Raskar on Camera Culture and mental framework for innovation](http://www.tedxbeaconstreet.com/ramesh-raskar/)
  * I actually watched several of his talks &mdash; this one is just a good overview
* [Manu Prakash on Foldscope](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h8cF5QPPmWU)
  * nice [collection of images taken with Foldscope](https://microcosmos.foldscope.com/) 
* [Thomas Suarez: A 12-year-old app developer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fkd9TWUtFm0)
  * title says it all
* [Bitcoin Blockchain Ethereum - Vitalik Buterin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGYmNidVLWY)
  * Visually appealing but still useful summary of blockchains
* [A Better Default Colormap for Matplotlib](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xAoljeRJ3lU)
  * [viridis](https://bids.github.io/colormap/)
* [Jer Thorp - The Weight of Data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q9wcvFkWpsM)
  * putting data into a human context
* [David Gruber: unexpected discovery of biofluorescent fish](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96HHmILhyrE#t=4m4s)
* [Sue Desmond-Hellmann: A smarter, more precise way to think about public health](https://www.ted.com/talks/sue_desmond_hellmann_a_smarter_more_precise_way_to_think_about_public_health)
  * makes the case for bringing precision medicine approaches to public health
* [Digital biology and open science -- the coming revolution | Stephen Larson](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EKopW86CCJo)
 * putting OpenWorm into the context of engineering, digital biology and open science
* [Truly sustainable economic development: Ernesto Sirolli at TEDxEQChCh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SpIxZiBpGU0)
  * harnessing the power of local communities for economic development
    * [Dambisa Moyo's book "Dead Aid"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dambisa_Moyo#Dead_Aid)
    * [Sirolli Institute](http://sirolli.com/) 
      * [Forbes summary](http://www.forbes.com/2009/04/07/summary-dead-aid-opinions-business-visionaries-moyo.html)
    * book: [Ripples from the Zambezi: Passion, Entrepreneurship, and the Rebirth of Local Economies](https://books.google.de/books/about/Ripples_from_the_Zambezi.html?id=nkobSaZcwDMC&redir_esc=y)
    * [horse manure crisis of New York in 1960, as discussed in 1860](https://fee.org/articles/the-great-horse-manure-crisis-of-1894/)
* [Flashmob Nürnberg 2014 - Ode an die Freude](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a23945btJYw)
  * a very special, deeply emotional kind of public engagement
* [Is stigma an invisible killer? &mdash; Nahid Bhadelia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DR8GOoE91Lk)
  * discusses the stigma that patients and caregivers often experience, and what can be done about it
    * key factor: education
* [Philippe Petit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philippe_Petit): [The journey across the high wire](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k3zZVQPaKKQ)
  * quite personal perspective on essential personality traits, presented in a highly original way
* [The surprising habits of original thinkers &mdash; Adam Grant ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fxbCHn6gE3U)
* [The Open Patient: Healing through sharing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Glo5zP3sMpM)
  * features [OpenNotes](http://www.opennotes.org/)
  * [blog post](http://singularityhub.com/2016/08/12/access-to-medical-data-helped-this-engineer-discover-his-own-brain-tumor/)
  * [summary tweet](https://twitter.com/EvoMRI/status/772090639131545601)
* [Audrey Tang: Stories from the Future of Democracy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mxMxg4ct-D8) 
  * open data as a key principle in the government of Taiwan
* [Back to the thesis: Francis Collins](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e3QAWyGW1DY) 
  * useful
  * great illustrations
* [Wanda Diaz Merced: How a blind astronomer found a way to hear the stars](https://www.ted.com/talks/wanda_diaz_merced_how_a_blind_astronomer_found_a_way_to_hear_the_stars)
  * sonification as a way to (a) explore data, (b) help bridge gaps between the sighted and un-sighted
* [Big Data: Biomedicine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F6CI7jXHGWg)
  * soundbites and visualizations around BD2K; not openly licensed
* [How to Learn Anything... Fast - Josh Kaufman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EtJy69cEOtQ)
  - Five main steps
    - Define a target performance level: Be clear about what you want to learn; define what it looks like if you succeed in learning it
    - Deconstruct the skill: decompose it into subskills, in order to practice the most important individual subskills first
    - Do some research to identify what those most important subskills are by skimming relevant literature, course materials and such; try to find out enough to allow you to self-correct as you practice
    - Remove barriers to practice: make it easy to actually sit down and practice, undistracted
    - Pre-commit a useful amount of time (he said at least 20h) of focused deliberate practice
* [Jay Gattuso: From nothing to daily use - How Python changed my work life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fCSAOcTbe8g)
* [Data Management Hub](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MYFyr2NmWdg) &mdash; introductory talk by [Ingo Keck](https://kubrik.io/about/team/ingo.html) on the [Data Management Hub](https://damahub.com/), a kind of blockchain-based distributed Dropbox for researchers
* [Matthew DeGennaro: Mutant mosquitoes hold key to life-saving perfume](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HbMhbrn1PoA)
* [Ogie Shaw: Winning The Mental Battle of Physical Fitness and Obesity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K60xHx836T0)
  - gist: exercise daily, first thing in the morning, for 20 min or less, against resistance; reward it
* [NEJM Data Summit](http://events.nejm.org/agenda.php)
  - [video recordings](http://events.nejm.org/conference_agenda.php?cid=7000)
  - see also [entry in events](https://github.com/Daniel-Mietchen/events/issues/42)
* Much of [TEDMED 2016](http://www.tedmed.com/event/stage2016)
  - see also [entry in events](https://github.com/Daniel-Mietchen/events/issues/51)
* Jeff Rosen &mdash; [Germany: Low Crime, Clean Prisons, Lessons for America](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wtV5ev6813I)
  - starts with some stats about incarceration rates in the US and other Western countries
  - on final slide, he quotes "The degree of civilization in a society can be judged by entering its prisons" from Dostoyevsky and asks what American prisons can tell about American society, which brings him on a trip to Germany to visit prisons (including a former concentration camp), talk to law enforcement officers and convicted criminals, which forms the main part of the talk.
* [From Syria to Germany in three stories | Kareem Kousa, Yusuf Zein & Ibrahim Andrun](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ylk7CjEHVaY)
  - three personal stories of young men who fled from Latakia to Hamburg
* [What does the Quran really say about a Muslim woman's hijab? | Samina Ali](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_J5bDhMP9lQ)
  - says that the Quran does not require women to wear a veil but instead recommends them to "do as the Romans do"; the requirements for veils have originated from clerical commentaries later on
  - points out that those clerical commentaries but not the Quran itself seem to see it preferable for women to stay at home, uneducated and always at the service of their husbands
* [Manage data like source code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tLdiDqtnnho)
  - introduces [Quilt](https://quiltdata.com/), a data package manager that allows to install, compile and version data and to access it like Python objects
* [Veritasium: Is Most Published Research Wrong?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=42QuXLucH3Q)
* [Tetiana Ivanova - How to become a Data Scientist in 6 months: a hacker’s approach to career planning](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rIofV14c0tc)
  - tried to distill the key elements of learning and learning-friendly behaviour and environments and put them into practice by learning data science from scratch, consciously avoiding institutional settings but making active use of Google, Stack Exchange, Kaggle, hackathons, other meetups etc.
  - similar approach in [I Dropped Out of School to Create My Own Data Science Master’s — Here’s My Curriculum](https://medium.com/@davidventuri/i-dropped-out-of-school-to-create-my-own-data-science-master-s-here-s-my-curriculum-1b400dcee412)
  - similar in spirit to [What I do or: science to data science](http://p.migdal.pl/2015/12/14/sci-to-data-sci.html)
 * [AI & The Future of Work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dRw4d2Si8LA)
   - explores how repetitive work is being replaced by automation
   - TL;DR: 
     - Education needed for things that can not soon be automated
       - Make things with love and dedication
       - Feeling empathy
       - Creativity
       - Critical thinking
     - Those four things are often missing in curricula
* [Aled Edwards: Why biomedical philanthropy supports redundant science](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wtp7R97jz5k)
  - makes a clear case for open science as a driver of innovation
* [Why the majority is always wrong](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNGFep6rncY)
  - argues that innovation usually comes from doing things differently rather than from merely doing things the same way at different intensities, which most people tend to do in response to challenges
* [Every second counts](http://everysecondcounts.eu/)
  - "America first", but can we just agree on making [country X] second?
* [The scientific method is crap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j12BBcKSgEQ#t=12m50s)
  - "instead, embrace the cycle of scientific thinking &mdash; observe, explain, predict"
* [Our approach to innovation is dead wrong](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pii8tTx1UYM)
  - on the importance of early feedback from the real world when trying something new
* [Disruptive ideas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MU13axMioY)
  - rather than inviting the poor to come into town for seminars, give them tablets and allow them to learn at home
* [Why I live a zero waste life | Lauren Singer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pF72px2R3Hg)
  - got rid of buying packaged stuff
    - starting with food
  - produces the products that she needs (e.g. tooth paste; lotion) herself
  - brings her own jars etc. to the point of sell
  - if she buys something non-consumable (e.g. clothes), it's second hand
* [Two adults, two kids, zero waste | Bea Johnson](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSUmo-40pqA)
  - basically the same approach as Lauren's (whom she inspired)
  - slightly different angle on downsizing and benefits

# Maybe watch in the future

* [The World We Want: OpenStreetMap and the Sustainable Development Goals](http://2016.stateofthemap.org/2016/the-world-we-want-openstreetmap-and-the-sustainable-development-goals/)
* [Democratisation of Knowledge with Katherine Maher](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8BuyKmjy7Rw)
* [Preventing the Next Global Pandemic: Lessons from Ebola and Zika](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x03QvDVrXZQ)
* [TED talk on fight against Ebola](https://twitter.com/HansRosling/status/685758709780328448)
* [Ending infectious diseases | Susan Desmond-Hellman, CEO Gates Foundation | Code Conference 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OJGd2E7Tjn8)
* older [TED MED](https://www.youtube.com/user/tedmed) talks 
* [Sandra Collins: Memory Keepers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i4mbHb5wqKo)
* [Frank Miedema: Science in Transition](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sUf1ajkIAhY)
* [Aled Edwards: Why biomedical philanthropy supports redundant science](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wtp7R97jz5k)
* [Pardis Sabeti: How we'll fight the next deadly virus](https://www.ted.com/talks/pardis_sabeti_how_we_ll_fight_the_next_deadly_virus)
* [Big Data: Personalized Learning](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r099JYtanSY)
* [Beyond Code: Repository Mining with Clojure](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hWhBmJJZoNM)
* [Michaela Murphy | On Resilience](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phhT1rGc96c)
* [CMake talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TqjtN8NGtl4)
* [Rafael Yuste: What understanding the brain means to science and medicine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n7cAuG-G_3k)
* [8 TED talks on the origin of ideas](http://www.educatorstechnology.com/2014/07/8-good-ted-talks-on-origin-of-ideas.html)
* [Create Flappy Bird in Python](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h2Uhla6nLDU)
* [Ideas from Europe](http://ideasfromeurope.eu/speakers-ideas-from-europe/)
* [Eli Pariser: Beware online "filter bubbles"](http://www.ted.com/talks/eli_pariser_beware_online_filter_bubbles)
* [Guido van Rossum - Keynote: Python now and in the future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bp3mCgrdMxU)
* [Diary of a Citizen Scientist with Sharman Apt Russell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jdWVpyRtUGg)
* [Marvin Minsky: Health and the human mind](https://www.ted.com/talks/marvin_minsky_on_health_and_the_human_mind?language=en)
* [David McCandless: The beauty of data visualization](http://www.ted.com/talks/david_mccandless_the_beauty_of_data_visualization)
* [Healing With Poetry - Nelofer Khan Habibullah](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rOR2xlQstGE)
* [Life in the Fast Lane - The Power of Large Scale Graphs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oxmurknhnto)
* [Videos from MLconf](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCjeM1xxYb_37bZfyparLS3Q) &mdash; all around machine learning
* [Sandy Pentland - Social Physics: How Good Ideas Spread](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HMBl0ttu-Ow)
* [Alex 'Sandy' Pentland - How social networks make us smarter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XAGBBt9RNbc)
* [Stuart Brown: Play is more than fun](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHwXlcHcTHc)
* [Michael J. Twery: "The Role of Sleep in Health"](https://videocast.nih.gov/Summary.asp?File=21123&bhcp=1)
* [Zika at University of California TV](http://www.uctv.tv/search/?keyword=zika&x=0&y=0)
* [Margaret Levenstein - Financing Innovation or Speculation, the Case of Cleveland](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8Ms7s-tPM4) &mdash; research on the impact of the 1930s Great Depression on innovative firms in the Midwest
* [Missing Evidence: Does physics still need experiment?](https://iai.tv/video/missing-evidence)
* [The Tyranny of Evidence](https://iai.tv/video/the-tyranny-of-evidence)
* [Mike Osterholm: "Deadliest Enemy: Our War Against Killer Germs”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vukHzn2juxw)
* [Building large-scale crowdsourcing communities with the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N0DsatEt0J8)
* [Fighting Disaster with Crowdsourcing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mp5EDWk3PHU)
* [The Humanitarian Data Exchange and HOT, CJ Hendrix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fdmNCyNCSxU)
* [Humanitarian OpenStreetMap: mapping the future of crisis response by Joseph Reeves](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2CIoO8oIDlM)
* [Ending Pandemics in Our Lifetime](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_9cX1Ilvf0)
* [An Afternoon with NASA Astronaut Kate Rubins (HHS Only)](https://videocast.nih.gov/summary.asp?Live=23253&bhcp=1)
* [What happens when our computers get smarter than we are?](https://www.ted.com/talks/nick_bostrom_what_happens_when_our_computers_get_smarter_than_we_are)
* [Paywall: The Business of Scholarship. A film about Open Access.](https://twitter.com/openscience/status/864711219663392768)
* [Kate Robinowitz: Open Data + You = Better Cities - Codeland - NYC 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xbwrKwO8NIE)
* [Economist Max Roser—Our World in Data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ia-3ud1TijA)
* [Climate model-data comparisons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tPSIvu0gQ90)
* [How to Become a Data Scientist in 2017? | Data Scientist Career | Data Science Future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ccCblUZFM0w)
* [Video of Navigate All the Knowledge (ConceptMap.io) presentation](http://learnjavafx.typepad.com/weblog/2016/03/video-of-navigate-all-the-knowledge-conceptmapio-presentation.html) &mdash; with Wikidata visualizations
* [Querying OSM + Wikidata from a single RDF database intro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KDiKzbuIhts)
* [The Hidden Secret of the Statues on Easter Island](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mH0sIjAHBVY)
* [Working Out Loud: The making of a movement | John Stepper](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XpjNl3Z10uc)
* [Why do whales sing? - Stephanie Sardelis](http://ed.ted.com/lessons/how-do-whales-sing-stephanie-sardelis)
* [Making robots more like children | Rodney Brooks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m2ViWnfbADE)
* [Sharon Terry: Science didn&#39;t understand my kids&#39; rare disease until I decided to study it](https://www.ted.com/talks/sharon_terry_science_didn_t_understand_my_kids_rare_disease_until_i_decided_to_study_it)
  - had watched that during TEDMED 2016 &mdash; notes at https://github.com/Daniel-Mietchen/events/issues/51
