pledges.md, before:

# About

This file collects materials related to pledges and similar aspirational statements regarding values like openness, diversity and ethics in the context of research, teaching and academia.

# Potential levels of pledges

* Individuals
  - Examples:
    - [Erin McKiernan](https://twitter.com/emckiernan13/status/668885842094522369)
    - [Ruben Arslan](https://rubenarslan.github.io/bug_bounty.html) (bug bounty for science)
    - [Suchith Anand](https://opensourcegeospatial.icaci.org/2017/07/the-pledge-i-support-open-principles-for-science-and-education-for-building-a-better-world-for-everyone/)
    - [Suzan Koseoglu](https://differentreadings.com/2015/12/01/an-open-pledge/) (with links to other examples)
    - [grant peer review](https://ask-open-science.org/835)
* Groups of individuals
  - examples:
    - [Peer Reviewers' Openness Initiative](https://opennessinitiative.org/)
    - [Research Without Walls](http://www.researchwithoutwalls.org/451)
    - [Commitment Statement in the Earth, Space, and Environmental Sciences for depositing and sharing data](http://www.copdess.org/enabling-fair-data-project/commitment-to-enabling-fair-data-in-the-earth-space-and-environmental-sciences/)
      - > "I hereby confirm that the signing individual commits to the Enabling FAIR Data objectives as defined in the Commitment Statement. I will review the commitment elements, develop a plan to address gaps, and complete the plan within one year of signing (or soonest)."
    - [Berlin call to action for open science](https://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Wikimedia_Deutschland/Open_Science_Fellows_Program/Berlin_Call_to_Action)
    - [Position Statement on Economic Growth](https://steadystate.org/act/sign-the-position/endorsements-and-signatures/view-all-individual-signatures/)
    - [Free our knowledge](https://www.freeourknowledge.org) have several campaigns, e.g.
      - [Withholding unpaid review work from profitable publishers](https://github.com/FreeOurKnowledge/discussion/issues/9)
      - also allow [starting a new campaign](https://www.freeourknowledge.org/campaign/create-your-own-campaign)
* Legal entities
  - [What is a good starting point for an Open Science Manifesto or Research Data Policy a university could issue?](https://ask-open-science.org/1060)
  - examples:
    - [Montreal Neurological Institute](https://openscienceneuro.org/)
    - [Ghent University](https://www.ugent.be/en/news-events/ghent-university-talent-rat-race-transformation-career-evaluation-model.htm) &mdash; "'We are transforming our university into a place where talent once again feels valued and nurtured’"
      - [commentary](https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2019/01/23/ghent-university-belgium-embraces-new-approach-faculty-evaluation-less-focused#.XE6ivx11n2k.twitter)
    - [TU Delft](https://doi.org/10.4233/uuid:f2faff07-408f-4cec-bd87-0919c9e4c26f)
    - [CITEC](https://www.cit-ec.de/en/open-science/manifesto)
    - [DORA](https://sfdora.org/signers/) (also individuals)
    - [Leiden Manifesto](http://www.leidenmanifesto.org/)
    - [Bouchout Declaration](http://www.bouchoutdeclaration.org/signatories/organizations/)
    - [UVA Draft Strategic Plan](https://bov.virginia.edu/system/files/public/meetings/190524_Draft%20Strategic%20Plan.pdf)
    - [Commitment Statement in the Earth, Space, and Environmental Sciences for depositing and sharing data](http://www.copdess.org/enabling-fair-data-project/commitment-to-enabling-fair-data-in-the-earth-space-and-environmental-sciences/)
      - > "I hereby confirm that the signing organization commits to the Enabling FAIR Data objectives as defined in the Commitment Statement. We will review the commitment elements, develop a plan to address gaps, and complete the plan within one year of signing (or soonest)."
    - [Position Statement on Economic Growth](https://steadystate.org/act/sign-the-position/endorsements-and-signatures/organization-list/)
    - [Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System](https://stars.aashe.org/)
    - [LUCSUS travel policy](http://web.archive.org/web/20191207070441/https://www.lucsus.lu.se/article/lucsus-presents-new-travel-policy-to-reduce-work-related-emissions)
      - [editable version](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZVRjoQAzWsx4e9okCP00d9rvXA28776hgiNTjZaDYko/edit)
      - [background](http://web.archive.org/web/20190717041419/http://www.kimnicholas.com/academics-flying-less.html)

# Potential dimensions of pledges

* diversity (e.g. [manels](https://www.nih.gov/about-nih/who-we-are/nih-director/statements/time-end-manel-tradition))
* ethics
  - signed the [Data Values and Principles](https://datapractices.org/manifesto/) on August 5, 2020
  - [similar proposed oath](https://teachdatascience.com/oath/)
* openness
* sustainability (e.g. as per [Position Statement on Economic Growth](https://steadystate.org/act/sign-the-position/read-the-position-statement/), which I signed on 28 June 2019)
* cover all aspects of research, teaching and academic community service
* collaboration (e.g. dependencies on behaviour of others)
  - distinguish between roles in collaboration (e.g. PI, first author)?
* community service (e.g. reviewing)
* patents?
* FAIR
  - e.g. ORCID

# Potential features of pledges

* version controlled
* simple
* modular
* easily forkable
* openly licensed
* have some obligatory components
* allow for publicly documented exceptions
  - e.g. as in [this vision for a scientific journal of the future](https://en.wikiversity.org/w/index.php?title=Wikiversity:Journal_of_the_future&oldid=1838552#Core_criteria), which states:
    - > "Flexibility: Innovation is stifled by inflexible rules. Exceptions to the above rules are possible if justified in public."
* be integrated into strategies around hiring, promotion, diversity, reproducibility, FAIR etc.
* contain provisions for regular (yearly or so) review &mdash; GitHub does it [semi-annually](http://web.archive.org/web/20200805040931/https://github.com/github/site-policy#how-often-will-github-review-these-policies)
* transition phase

# Open issues
* How to integrate pledges with applicable workflows
  - forms for operationalizing values
  - badges as in some journals for data sharing
  - contracts
  - evaluation rubrics
  - openness facilitates reporting

# See also
* [What can research institutions do to encourage open science?](https://ask-open-science.org/882)
* [Pledges at Ask Open Science](https://ask-open-science.org/tag/pledges)
* [Grimpact – Time to acknowledge the dark side of the impact agenda](https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2019/05/28/grimpact-time-to-acknowledge-the-dark-side-of-the-impact-agenda/)
* [The ‘Welcome Letter’: A Useful Tool for Laboratories and Teams](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5479682/)
* [Urban Institute's Funding Principles](https://www.urban.org/aboutus/our-funding/funding-principles)
* [GitHub's site policies](https://github.com/github/site-policy) 
  - includes the [bug bounty policy](https://bounty.github.com/)
* [Values and Principles Framework and Assessment Checklist](https://commonplace.knowledgefutures.org/pub/5se1i1qy/release/4)

Commit message:

University of California's 18 Principles to Transform Scholarly Communication

pledges.md, after:

# About

This file collects materials related to pledges and similar aspirational statements regarding values like openness, diversity and ethics in the context of research, teaching and academia.

# Potential levels of pledges

* Individuals
  - Examples:
    - [Erin McKiernan](https://twitter.com/emckiernan13/status/668885842094522369)
    - [Ruben Arslan](https://rubenarslan.github.io/bug_bounty.html) (bug bounty for science)
    - [Suchith Anand](https://opensourcegeospatial.icaci.org/2017/07/the-pledge-i-support-open-principles-for-science-and-education-for-building-a-better-world-for-everyone/)
    - [Suzan Koseoglu](https://differentreadings.com/2015/12/01/an-open-pledge/) (with links to other examples)
    - [grant peer review](https://ask-open-science.org/835)
* Groups of individuals
  - examples:
    - [Peer Reviewers' Openness Initiative](https://opennessinitiative.org/)
    - [Research Without Walls](http://www.researchwithoutwalls.org/451)
    - [Commitment Statement in the Earth, Space, and Environmental Sciences for depositing and sharing data](http://www.copdess.org/enabling-fair-data-project/commitment-to-enabling-fair-data-in-the-earth-space-and-environmental-sciences/)
      - > "I hereby confirm that the signing individual commits to the Enabling FAIR Data objectives as defined in the Commitment Statement. I will review the commitment elements, develop a plan to address gaps, and complete the plan within one year of signing (or soonest)."
    - [Berlin call to action for open science](https://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Wikimedia_Deutschland/Open_Science_Fellows_Program/Berlin_Call_to_Action)
    - [Position Statement on Economic Growth](https://steadystate.org/act/sign-the-position/endorsements-and-signatures/view-all-individual-signatures/)
    - [Free our knowledge](https://www.freeourknowledge.org) have several campaigns, e.g.
      - [Withholding unpaid review work from profitable publishers](https://github.com/FreeOurKnowledge/discussion/issues/9)
      - also allow [starting a new campaign](https://www.freeourknowledge.org/campaign/create-your-own-campaign)
* Legal entities
  - [What is a good starting point for an Open Science Manifesto or Research Data Policy a university could issue?](https://ask-open-science.org/1060)
  - examples:
    - [Montreal Neurological Institute](https://openscienceneuro.org/)
    - [Ghent University](https://www.ugent.be/en/news-events/ghent-university-talent-rat-race-transformation-career-evaluation-model.htm) &mdash; "'We are transforming our university into a place where talent once again feels valued and nurtured’"
      - [commentary](https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2019/01/23/ghent-university-belgium-embraces-new-approach-faculty-evaluation-less-focused#.XE6ivx11n2k.twitter)
    - [TU Delft](https://doi.org/10.4233/uuid:f2faff07-408f-4cec-bd87-0919c9e4c26f)
    - [CITEC](https://www.cit-ec.de/en/open-science/manifesto)
    - [DORA](https://sfdora.org/signers/) (also individuals)
    - [Leiden Manifesto](http://www.leidenmanifesto.org/)
    - [Bouchout Declaration](http://www.bouchoutdeclaration.org/signatories/organizations/)
    - [UVA Draft Strategic Plan](https://bov.virginia.edu/system/files/public/meetings/190524_Draft%20Strategic%20Plan.pdf)
    - [Commitment Statement in the Earth, Space, and Environmental Sciences for depositing and sharing data](http://www.copdess.org/enabling-fair-data-project/commitment-to-enabling-fair-data-in-the-earth-space-and-environmental-sciences/)
      - > "I hereby confirm that the signing organization commits to the Enabling FAIR Data objectives as defined in the Commitment Statement. We will review the commitment elements, develop a plan to address gaps, and complete the plan within one year of signing (or soonest)."
    - [Position Statement on Economic Growth](https://steadystate.org/act/sign-the-position/endorsements-and-signatures/organization-list/)
    - [Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System](https://stars.aashe.org/)
    - [LUCSUS travel policy](http://web.archive.org/web/20191207070441/https://www.lucsus.lu.se/article/lucsus-presents-new-travel-policy-to-reduce-work-related-emissions)
      - [editable version](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZVRjoQAzWsx4e9okCP00d9rvXA28776hgiNTjZaDYko/edit)
      - [background](http://web.archive.org/web/20190717041419/http://www.kimnicholas.com/academics-flying-less.html)
  - [University of California's 18 Principles to Transform Scholarly Communication](https://senate.universityofcalifornia.edu/_files/committees/ucolasc/scholcommprinciples-20180425.pdf)

# Potential dimensions of pledges

* diversity (e.g. [manels](https://www.nih.gov/about-nih/who-we-are/nih-director/statements/time-end-manel-tradition))
* ethics
  - signed the [Data Values and Principles](https://datapractices.org/manifesto/) on August 5, 2020
  - [similar proposed oath](https://teachdatascience.com/oath/)
* openness
* sustainability (e.g. as per [Position Statement on Economic Growth](https://steadystate.org/act/sign-the-position/read-the-position-statement/), which I signed on 28 June 2019)
* cover all aspects of research, teaching and academic community service
* collaboration (e.g. dependencies on behaviour of others)
  - distinguish between roles in collaboration (e.g. PI, first author)?
* community service (e.g. reviewing)
* patents?
* FAIR
  - e.g. ORCID

# Potential features of pledges

* version controlled
* simple
* modular
* easily forkable
* openly licensed
* have some obligatory components
* allow for publicly documented exceptions
  - e.g. as in [this vision for a scientific journal of the future](https://en.wikiversity.org/w/index.php?title=Wikiversity:Journal_of_the_future&oldid=1838552#Core_criteria), which states:
    - > "Flexibility: Innovation is stifled by inflexible rules. Exceptions to the above rules are possible if justified in public."
* be integrated into strategies around hiring, promotion, diversity, reproducibility, FAIR etc.
* contain provisions for regular (yearly or so) review &mdash; GitHub does it [semi-annually](http://web.archive.org/web/20200805040931/https://github.com/github/site-policy#how-often-will-github-review-these-policies)
* transition phase

# Open issues
* How to integrate pledges with applicable workflows
  - forms for operationalizing values
  - badges as in some journals for data sharing
  - contracts
  - evaluation rubrics
  - openness facilitates reporting

# See also
* [What can research institutions do to encourage open science?](https://ask-open-science.org/882)
* [Pledges at Ask Open Science](https://ask-open-science.org/tag/pledges)
* [Grimpact – Time to acknowledge the dark side of the impact agenda](https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2019/05/28/grimpact-time-to-acknowledge-the-dark-side-of-the-impact-agenda/)
* [The ‘Welcome Letter’: A Useful Tool for Laboratories and Teams](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5479682/)
* [Urban Institute's Funding Principles](https://www.urban.org/aboutus/our-funding/funding-principles)
* [GitHub's site policies](https://github.com/github/site-policy) 
  - includes the [bug bounty policy](https://bounty.github.com/)
* [Values and Principles Framework and Assessment Checklist](https://commonplace.knowledgefutures.org/pub/5se1i1qy/release/4)
