reuse.md, before:

# About 
This file serves to collect thoughts on how to stimulate the reuse of open data, and on how to quantify such reuse. [This blog post](http://clintlalonde.net/2014/01/16/building-knowledge-tools-for-the-public-good/) considers some of the conditions that have to be met for reuse to happen, and the importance of generativity in the systems involved.

# Examples
## JATS
[PubMed Central](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/) (PMC) is a repository for scholarly literature in the biomedical field. Some of its content is available under terms that allow for [Reusing, Revising, Remixing and Redistributing Research](http://blogs.plos.org/blog/2012/10/23/reusing-revising-remixing-and-redistributing-research/), e.g. to extract audio and video materials from these articles and upload them to Wikimedia Commons, as the [Open Access Media Importer](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Open_Access_Media_Importer_Bot) does. 

The bot's activity has revealed a number of [inconsistencies in the XML at PMC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Daniel_Mietchen/Talks/JATS-Con_2014/Inconsistent_XML_as_a_Barrier_to_Reuse_of_Open_Access_Content), since the XML standard in use at PMC ([JATS](http://jats.nlm.nih.gov/)) is by design not very prescriptive and leaves lots of room for interpretation.

This sparked the formation of the [JATS for Reuse](https://github.com/jats4r) (JATS4R) Working Group that now elaborates recommendations on how best to tag articles in JATS, so as to facilitate reuse.

## Stats  
* [Page views of medical pages on the English Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:WikiProject_Medicine/Popular_pages)  
* [GLAMorous](http://tools.wmflabs.org/glamtools/glamorous.php?doit=1&category=Uploaded+with+Open+Access+Media+Importer)  
* [BaGLAMa](http://tools.wmflabs.org/glamtools/baglama2/#gid=129&month=201502)  
* [Cite-o-Meter](http://tools.wmflabs.org/cite-o-meter/)  
* [Cocytus](http://events.labs.crossref.org/events/types/WikipediaCitation)  
* [Total DOIs cited from the English Wikipedia](https://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1299540)  

## ImageJ
[ImageJ](http://imagej.nih.gov/ij/) is a widely used software package for visualizing and analyzing biomedical data.

Commit message:

"Open tools, open media, and syndication"

reuse.md, after:

# About 
This file serves to collect thoughts on how to stimulate the reuse of open data, and on how to quantify such reuse. [This blog post](http://clintlalonde.net/2014/01/16/building-knowledge-tools-for-the-public-good/) considers some of the conditions that have to be met for reuse to happen, and the importance of generativity in the systems involved. Another blog post [summed up](http://abject.ca/syndication-and-content/) highlighted  
> Open tools, open media, and syndication
as key factors on how to achieve that.

# Examples
## JATS
[PubMed Central](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/) (PMC) is a repository for scholarly literature in the biomedical field. Some of its content is available under terms that allow for [Reusing, Revising, Remixing and Redistributing Research](http://blogs.plos.org/blog/2012/10/23/reusing-revising-remixing-and-redistributing-research/), e.g. to extract audio and video materials from these articles and upload them to Wikimedia Commons, as the [Open Access Media Importer](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Open_Access_Media_Importer_Bot) does. 

The bot's activity has revealed a number of [inconsistencies in the XML at PMC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Daniel_Mietchen/Talks/JATS-Con_2014/Inconsistent_XML_as_a_Barrier_to_Reuse_of_Open_Access_Content), since the XML standard in use at PMC ([JATS](http://jats.nlm.nih.gov/)) is by design not very prescriptive and leaves lots of room for interpretation.

This sparked the formation of the [JATS for Reuse](https://github.com/jats4r) (JATS4R) Working Group that now elaborates recommendations on how best to tag articles in JATS, so as to facilitate reuse.

## Stats  
* [Page views of medical pages on the English Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:WikiProject_Medicine/Popular_pages)  
* [GLAMorous](http://tools.wmflabs.org/glamtools/glamorous.php?doit=1&category=Uploaded+with+Open+Access+Media+Importer)  
* [BaGLAMa](http://tools.wmflabs.org/glamtools/baglama2/#gid=129&month=201502)  
* [Cite-o-Meter](http://tools.wmflabs.org/cite-o-meter/)  
* [Cocytus](http://events.labs.crossref.org/events/types/WikipediaCitation)  
* [Total DOIs cited from the English Wikipedia](https://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1299540)  

## ImageJ
[ImageJ](http://imagej.nih.gov/ij/) is a widely used software package for visualizing and analyzing biomedical data.
