Wuhan-virus-outbreak-2019.md, before:

# About 

This file tracks information related to the viral outbreak in Wuhan, China, in 2019-2020.


# Twitter

* https://twitter.com/search?q=(wuhan%20AND%20(virus%20OR%20outbreak%20OR%20viral%20OR%20epidemic))%20OR%20(ncov%20OR%20(novel%20AND%20coronavirus))

# Community portal

* reusing http://virological.org/

# Open questions

* [Was the Huanan seafood market at the epicenter?](https://twitter.com/suilee/status/1217730098494722048)
  - If so, 
    - what there was it?
      - Which animal was the host from which the virus jumped over?
      - Which humans were the first to be infected?
        - Who was in contact with the infected?
    - When was it?
      - [“Doctors began seeing a new type of viral pneumonia—fever, cough, difficulty breathing — in people who worked at or visited a food market in the suburbs of Wuhan late last month."](https://twitter.com/JamarlinMartin/status/1218396568488988672) (i.e. in December 2019)
  - If not, then what was? 
* [How does the virus spread?](https://twitter.com/suilee/status/1217730098494722048)
  - Can it be transmitted from human to human?
    - apparently yes
  - Can it be transmitted sexually?
  - Can it be transmitted vertically, leading to congenital infection?
* Some more questions [here](https://twitter.com/voxdotcom/status/1219937802386886656)
* [WHO chief does not declare a public health emergency](https://www.who.int/dg/speeches/detail/who-director-general-s-statement-on-the-advice-of-the-ihr-emergency-committee-on-novel-coronavirus) (part ii)
* [Are snakes a natural reservoir?](https://www.kbcchannel.tv/2020/01/24/no-the-wuhan-virus-is-now-not-a-snake-flu/) &mdash; misinformation and responsibility around data sharing

# Political aspects

## Public Health Emergency of International Concern

- meeting on Jan 22
- decision postponed to Jan 23

## Freedom of Information / Freedom of Press / Misinformation

* https://twitter.com/HongKongFP/status/1216974257386733569
* https://twitter.com/nytimes/status/1220059835644944384
* https://twitter.com/danhaddock3/status/1220718365943091200
* https://twitter.com/SalahidinU1/status/1221623656171917314
* https://twitter.com/asianpocunite/status/1221566767161626630
* https://www.spiegel.de/wissenschaft/mensch/coronavirus-drei-lehren-aus-der-krise-kolumne-a-566d9c89-4c5e-445c-beb0-84050e0c308e

# Data aspects

## Genome data
* [Pre-release tweet by WHO](https://twitter.com/WHO/status/1216108498188230657)
* [Chinese researchers reveal draft genome of virus implicated in Wuhan pneumonia outbreak](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aba8829)
  * With comments &mdash; including [by Jeremy Farrar](https://twitter.com/JeremyFarrar/status/1215913768670068736) &mdash; on data sharing and (the lack of) attribution

## Publishing

* https://twitter.com/JeremyFarrar/status/1221477164115275777

## Protein structure data

* https://twitter.com/tsrabbit3/status/1221464975761297409

## Number of cases

* [MRC Report estimating the number of cases](https://twitter.com/MRC_Outbreak/status/1218181597830221824)
  * summed up in https://twitter.com/seeshawn/status/1218210470777237504

## Spread

* data integration of disease vulnerability and air traffic
  * https://twitter.com/donal_bisanzio/status/1218190352848474119
* [Mapping of cases so far](https://gisanddata.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6)
  - via https://twitter.com/TexasDownUnder/status/1220014483516592129
* Virginia cases
  - [overview](http://www.vdh.virginia.gov/surveillance-and-investigation/novel-coronavirus/)
* [Map of destinations from Wuhan Tianhe International Airport](https://w.wiki/GDz)

## Scholia

* https://tools.wmflabs.org/scholia/topic/Q82069695

# Timeline

* [Here’s a Timeline of How China’s Viral Outbreak Spread Worldwide](https://futurism.com/neoscope/timeline-china-viral-outbreak-spread-worldwide) (as of January 24, 2020)

Commit message:

"I am not declaring a public health emergency of international concern today."

Wuhan-virus-outbreak-2019.md, after:

# About 

This file tracks information related to the viral outbreak in Wuhan, China, in 2019-2020.


# Twitter

* https://twitter.com/search?q=(wuhan%20AND%20(virus%20OR%20outbreak%20OR%20viral%20OR%20epidemic))%20OR%20(ncov%20OR%20(novel%20AND%20coronavirus))

# Community portal

* reusing http://virological.org/

# Open questions

* [Was the Huanan seafood market at the epicenter?](https://twitter.com/suilee/status/1217730098494722048)
  - If so, 
    - what there was it?
      - Which animal was the host from which the virus jumped over?
      - Which humans were the first to be infected?
        - Who was in contact with the infected?
    - When was it?
      - [“Doctors began seeing a new type of viral pneumonia—fever, cough, difficulty breathing — in people who worked at or visited a food market in the suburbs of Wuhan late last month."](https://twitter.com/JamarlinMartin/status/1218396568488988672) (i.e. in December 2019)
  - If not, then what was? 
* [How does the virus spread?](https://twitter.com/suilee/status/1217730098494722048)
  - Can it be transmitted from human to human?
    - apparently yes
  - Can it be transmitted sexually?
  - Can it be transmitted vertically, leading to congenital infection?
* Some more questions [here](https://twitter.com/voxdotcom/status/1219937802386886656)
* [WHO chief does not declare a public health emergency](https://www.who.int/dg/speeches/detail/who-director-general-s-statement-on-the-advice-of-the-ihr-emergency-committee-on-novel-coronavirus) (part ii)
* [Are snakes a natural reservoir?](https://www.kbcchannel.tv/2020/01/24/no-the-wuhan-virus-is-now-not-a-snake-flu/) &mdash; misinformation and responsibility around data sharing

# Political aspects

## Public Health Emergency of International Concern

- meeting on Jan 22
- decision postponed to Jan 23
- January 23: ["I am not declaring a public health emergency of international concern today."](https://www.who.int/dg/speeches/detail/who-director-general-s-statement-on-the-advice-of-the-ihr-emergency-committee-on-novel-coronavirus)
  - [background](https://www.who.int/news-room/detail/23-01-2020-statement-on-the-meeting-of-the-international-health-regulations-(2005)-emergency-committee-regarding-the-outbreak-of-novel-coronavirus-(2019-ncov))

## Freedom of Information / Freedom of Press / Misinformation

* https://twitter.com/HongKongFP/status/1216974257386733569
* https://twitter.com/nytimes/status/1220059835644944384
* https://twitter.com/danhaddock3/status/1220718365943091200
* https://twitter.com/SalahidinU1/status/1221623656171917314
* https://twitter.com/asianpocunite/status/1221566767161626630
* https://www.spiegel.de/wissenschaft/mensch/coronavirus-drei-lehren-aus-der-krise-kolumne-a-566d9c89-4c5e-445c-beb0-84050e0c308e

# Data aspects

## Genome data
* [Pre-release tweet by WHO](https://twitter.com/WHO/status/1216108498188230657)
* [Chinese researchers reveal draft genome of virus implicated in Wuhan pneumonia outbreak](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aba8829)
  * With comments &mdash; including [by Jeremy Farrar](https://twitter.com/JeremyFarrar/status/1215913768670068736) &mdash; on data sharing and (the lack of) attribution

## Publishing

* https://twitter.com/JeremyFarrar/status/1221477164115275777

## Protein structure data

* https://twitter.com/tsrabbit3/status/1221464975761297409

## Number of cases

* [MRC Report estimating the number of cases](https://twitter.com/MRC_Outbreak/status/1218181597830221824)
  * summed up in https://twitter.com/seeshawn/status/1218210470777237504

## Spread

* data integration of disease vulnerability and air traffic
  * https://twitter.com/donal_bisanzio/status/1218190352848474119
* [Mapping of cases so far](https://gisanddata.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6)
  - via https://twitter.com/TexasDownUnder/status/1220014483516592129
* Virginia cases
  - [overview](http://www.vdh.virginia.gov/surveillance-and-investigation/novel-coronavirus/)
* [Map of destinations from Wuhan Tianhe International Airport](https://w.wiki/GDz)

## Scholia

* https://tools.wmflabs.org/scholia/topic/Q82069695

# Timeline

* [Here’s a Timeline of How China’s Viral Outbreak Spread Worldwide](https://futurism.com/neoscope/timeline-china-viral-outbreak-spread-worldwide) (as of January 24, 2020)
